A quantum computer is a computer that exploits quantum mechanical
phenomena. At small scales, physical matter exhibits properties of
both particles and waves, and quantum computing leverages this
behavior using specialized hardware. Classical physics cannot
explain the operation of these quantum devices, and a scalable
quantum computer could perform some calculations exponentially
faster than any modern "classical" computer. In particular, a
large-scale quantum computer could break widely used encryption
schemes and aid physicists in performing physical simulations;
however, the current state of the art is still largely
experimental and impractical.
The basic unit of information in quantum computing is the qubit,
similar to the bit in traditional digital electronics. Unlike a
classical bit, a qubit can exist in a superposition of its two
"basis" states, which loosely means that it is in both states
simultaneously. When measuring a qubit, the result is a
probabilistic output of a classical bit. If a quantum computer
manipulates the qubit in a particular way, wave interference
effects can amplify the desired measurement results. The design
of quantum algorithms involves creating procedures that allow a
quantum computer to perform calculations efficiently.
Physically engineering high-quality qubits has proven challenging.
If a physical qubit is not sufficiently isolated from its
environment, it suffers from quantum decoherence, introducing noise
into calculations. National governments have invested heavily in
experimental research that aims to develop scalable qubits with
longer coherence times and lower error rates. Two of the most
promising technologies are superconductors (which isolate an
electrical current by eliminating electrical resistance) and ion
traps (which confine a single atomic particle using electromagnetic
fields).
Any computational problem that can be solved by a classical computer
can also be solved by a quantum computer.[2] Conversely, any problem
that can be solved by a quantum computer can also be solved by a
classical computer, at least in principle given enough time. In other
words, quantum computers obey the Church–Turing thesis. This means
that while quantum computers provide no additional advantages over
classical computers in terms of computability, quantum algorithms
for certain problems have significantly lower time complexities than
corresponding known classical algorithms. Notably, quantum computers
are believed to be able to solve certain problems quickly that no
classical computer could solve in any feasible amount of time—a feat
known as "quantum supremacy." The study of the computational
complexity of problems with respect to quantum computers is known as
quantum complexity theory.